This phylogeny shows evolutionary relationships of hCoV-19 (or SARS-CoV-2) viruses from the ongoing novel coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic. This phylogeny shows an initial emergence in Wuhan, China, in Nov-Dec 2019 followed by sustained human-to-human transmission leading to sampled infections. Although the genetic relationships among sampled viruses are quite clear, there is considerable uncertainty surrounding estimates of specific transmission dates and in reconstruction of geographic spread. Please be aware that specific inferred transmission patterns are only a hypothesis.

There are thousands of complete genomes available now and this number increases by hundreds of every day. This analysis contains just the sequences from California (or one county) together with sequences from other locations which could plausibly be their ancestors.

Site numbering and genome structure uses Wuhan-Hu-1/2019 as reference. The phylogeny is rooted relative to early samples from Wuhan. Temporal resolution assumes a nucleotide substitution rate of 8 × 10^-4 subs per site per year.

We gratefully acknowledge the authors, originating and submitting laboratories of the genetic sequence and metadata made available through [GISAID](https://gisaid.org) on which this research is based. A full listing of all originating and submitting laboratories is available below. An attribution table is available by clicking on "Download Data" at the bottom of the page and then clicking on "Strain Metadata" in the resulting dialog box. This analysis and visualization depends heavily on the `augur` and `auspice` tools maintained by the [Nextstrain](https://nextstrain.org) team.
